# Evaluation of Image Pre-processing Techniques for Improved Rice Leaf Disease Detection
Authors: Ivyann Romijn H. Vergara and Mylah Rystie Anacleto

Detection of rice diseases traditionally relies on visual inspection by experts, a time-consuming and knowledge-intensive process. This study aimed to develop a digital platform for automated rice disease detection. We investigated the effectiveness of various image preprocessing techniques in enhancing disease classification accuracy. Preprocessing methods included histogram equalization in L channel, histogram equalization in V channel, and contrast stretching with factors of 0.5 and 2. Peak Signal-to-Noise Ratio (PSNR), Normalized Root Mean Square Error (NRMSE), and Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) were used to assess image quality.
The original image achieved the highest classification accuracy (94.34\%), followed by contrast stretching with a factor of 2 (92.24%), contrast stretching with a factor of 0.5 (91.61%) , histogram equalization in L channel (88.68%), and histogram equalization in V channel (82.60%) resulted in lower accuracy. This highlights the complex relationship between image quality metrics and classification performance. While high PSNR,  low NRMSE, and high SSIM indicate visual fidelity, they may not directly translate to better disease classification. Moreover, for certain diseases, preprocessing can be beneficial. In our study, contrast stretching with a factor of 2 slightly improved detection of bacterial leaf blight compared to the original image. Future work will explore the impact of these findings on other Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) models, other datasets, and investigate alternative preprocessing techniques to gain further insights into the interplay between image enhancement and classification performance. Transitioning the platform to a mobile app will facilitate real-time disease detection in the field.

Keywords: timage enhancement techniques, rice disease, CNN, histogram equalization, contrast stretching

Read [How To Document](HOWTO.md) for more details.
